- [Instructor] So we're going to take a look
at a few more stream operations
because streams are really important
when working with collections,
but I can't go into the details on everything
because I don't want to lose that focus on collections.
So let's just walk through a few examples
and then you might want to look at the streams API
on your own.
So let's imagine that we wanted to gather all
of our pet-friendly rooms into a new collection.
You might do something like this.
You might declare a new collection
and then inside of the stream,
you're going to pass in that collection
and add the rooms into it.
So we're doing two things here.
We're passing in an external object and we're modifying it
within the stream.
Now in general, it's okay to work with external objects
inside of your stream.
It's okay to modify objects inside of your stream,
but you should never do both.
So there's an operation we can use to handle this.
We can use the collect operation.
It's a terminal operation that we can use
within our pipeline.
And the collect operation accepts a collector
and we get several collectors on the collector's class
via its static methods.
And probably the one you'll use the most is toList.
So essentially all the elements that flow
into the collect operation are going to be gathered
into a list and returned by this operation.
So all we need to do then is just assign that list
that's returned by the operation to our new collection
and then we can go ahead and execute the code
and you'll see that our stream here is going
to print those elements in the collection
out to the console.
Now, if we look at this stream,
there's actually a better way we can do this.
You'll notice that we are printing out the result
of invoking the getName method,
because we just want to get the name of the room.
What we can actually use another operation to do that,
that operation is map.
And what the map does is it takes in the elements coming in,
so in this case, it's our room,
and then we apply a transformation on the element,
and that's going to determine what element flows out
of the operation and further down the stream for processing.
So here, I'm going to accept the room as a parameter
into our function that will do the mapping.
And then we're going to return a string
from this Lambda expression.
And that string is what will flow to the next operation.
There, all we need to do is use a method reference
to go ahead and print out our stream.
So I'll use the println method and pass that
into the for each operation.
And now if we execute our code, look what happens.
So we cleaned things up a bit there.
Now let's walk through another example.
Let's imagine that we wanted to get the total revenue
of all the pet friendly rooms.
To do that, we can use the rate on the room,
which is a double.
We can see it here.
Now there's another map operation
that allows us to do this really easily
and it's mapToDouble.
And all we need to do is pass in a method reference
that's going to return a double.
So here I'll just pass in the getRate method
and now we're going to be working with a double stream
and this has another operation on it, sum.
So let's go ahead and we will sum all of the doubles
that are flowing into that operation.
And they're going to get totaled and returned as a double.
So let's store that in a variable
and then we can print that variable to the console.
Okay, and you can see we have a total of $450
in potential revenue for our pet friendly rooms.
So those are just a few of the methods
from the streams API that we can use to work
with our collections.
This course is about collections,
but learning more of the streams API
will definitely improve how you work with them.
So I'm going to sprinkle in more examples with streams
in the remainder of the course
and if you'd like, take a deeper look at the streams API.